# Session1-Assign4
1. Describe the characterstics of Big Data in details.
2. Explain the possible solutions to handle Big Data.
3. What is the difference between Scale up and scale out.

Ans-1 Characterstics of Big Data are-
a. Volume- descibes the quantity of data which is generated. It states the size of big data whic is varaibly large in size. It can be in TeraBytes or PetaBytes or even ExaBytes.
b. Velocity- It describes the speed at which the data is generated day by day. It is a challenge to handle the flodding data because the data is generated at a very fast speed.
c. Variety-It is the another characterstic of big data which states that data is generated from multiple sources in multiple forms. Data can be images, sudio,video,text etc. We need a system to handle such structured and unstructured data which is being generated by multiple sources at very fast speed.
d. Veracity- Veracity is related to the unworthiness of data being generated oin terms of variety.It refers to the biases,noise and abnormality of data. Is the data being stored and processes in a  meaingful manner.
e. Volatility- It states how long the data is valid and how long it should be stored. You need to determine at which point the data is no more relevant to the analysis.

Ans-2 Possible solutions to handle big data are to scale up or to scale out.
a. Sacle Up- Scaling up is to increase the configuration of a single system by increasing the RAM and processing and Disk Space. Which can handle Big data but it is complex to handle and costly to scale.
b. Scale out- Scaling out isa better solution then scaling up in which the load of Big data processing is distributed to multiple connected systems in distributed environment. It is economical solution and quick to implement. Instead of having a single system with Tbs of memory we will have multiple systems having a reasonable amount of memory. 

Ans-3 Scale up and Scale out is different in following aspects-
a. Sacle Up- Scaling up is to increase the configuration of a single system by increasing the RAM and processing and Disk Space. Which can handle Big data but it is complex to handle and costly to scale.
b. Scale out- Scaling out isa better solution then scaling up in which the load of Big data processing is distributed to multiple connected systems in distributed environment. It is economical solution and quick to implement. Instead of having a single system with Tbs of memory we will have multiple systems having a reasonable amount of memory. 
